Simon Coleman I've been in the insurance
industry for 26 years and I've been
involved with the insurance apprentice
since it started a couple of years ago
my name is viola I have been in the
insurance industry for 15 years I've
worked both in life insurance as well as
short-term insurance and I'm the judge
for the third year running for the
insurance apprentice
[Music]
I love this industry I think it plays
quite a significant role in the South
African society and I want to do
whatever I can to have more people
interested in entering this industry
we're really trying to attract younger
people too many and still seen as one of
those very starchy perhaps a little
boring type of industry and the
insurance of trends has really helped to
you smash that the Insurance Apprentice
is really around identifying key talent
in the industry and it really are on
developing by talent so that they can
enter start doing more and rating to
greater height well welcome to the third
season of the insurance print you should
all count yourselves on the back right
now
you've been whittled down from 135
contestants down to the last eight
you've done well to come respond
so I began in the insurance industry as
a 19 year old and I was fortunate enough
to hold a number of position validated
through the ranks quite quickly before
moving over to absol insurance and
financial advisors I was being
approached by Associated insurance
brokers from our current position where
holds position of senior portfolio
manager so my plan to win the
competitions is to be myself I think I
have to believe your own value
proposition wherever you go in life
level so I believe that I have unique
skill set and fallacious and come I
started as an intern then an opportunity
came and I was at center and I sent them
I was doing commercial as well I ended
up at hollowed it might appear as if I
am sweet and the dreams might think that
not much competition but who says that's
not even my game to play
so my career in insurance started about
six years ago from the motor industry I
started off in the procurement area
where I looked after certain suppliers
of insurance services from there on I
moved into the account division and in
the risk financing and now portfolio
management role my plan for this
competition is firstly to remain myself
be as authentic as I possibly can be
they can lead to have fun and thirdly to
give it my best I've gathered quite a
substantial amount of experience in the
roles I've played and I intend to put
all that to the test
my name is little ohm Raja though some
people call me the seller of the kilo
because of the key clicking my name for
me I think what set me apart is my
confidence my boldness and my 10 years
experience in the short term insurance
industry my belief is that a leader is
someone who wins through other people
not through themselves so my winning is
going to be using the team members to
bring out my strengths and to bring out
my talent to the fall I've been in the
short term insurance industry for nine
years I've done a lot of things I
started off in pricing I then moved on
into analytics and more recently I've
been involved in international business
development I want to play a role where
I guide the team to ensure that we take
all the boxes and also call out things
when I see that things like the railing
us from the task you know just to keep
everybody focused to ensure that the
team goes eight I am a friendly person
but I don't shy away from confronting
people so nothing against the person I
play the ball and not man
I've been an insurance industry for over
12 years and I have experienced loss
various classes of business as both an
underwriter as well as a broker
besides my experience I'm also very
strong technically and academically as I
love learning and I'll continually push
myself to expand my knowledge I'm very
good at managing people and putting them
into the right position so we achieve
the overall objective of winning I do
want to win those competitions I'll do
whatever it takes in order to to get
success in every task that we
participated
they shows industry has been really good
to me I've had wonderful managers who
taught me selflessly and encouraged me
and maintenance just as important as
competition John Maxwell said that he
who think appeal Edith but has no
following is simply taking a walk I plan
to stand out by performing well I
believe that if you are technically
sound you listen to the judges and take
the task as it is and you contribute
positively to your team you will stand
out
[Music]
and my experience in insurance industry
started when I was 19 19 20 years old
now a business development manager
hollered what I've done has got me this
far in life and I'm going to take that
true and pay that true into this game so
just do what I do and and hope for the
best and obviously you had to win it
with what was worth worth one of them in
the business world
I do want you to enjoy yourself but I
want you to remember that this is the
context what we're looking for is one
single winner there are no second prizes
there is no almost apprentice there's no
not quite the apprentice just one winner
from have a huge amount of respect for
the seven other contestants a wonderful
professional renowned right and in any
competition 150 South against best so
it'll be good gauge for me in terms of
where I stand as an insurance profession
I realize the caliber of the people that
are in the top 80 people have succeeded
well in their careers and I will tap
onto their knowledge and their wisdom
that they have gained over the years
that has taken them to where they are
today competition I believe will carry
and change from day to day from task to
task they can be a task that plays
according to your strengths and you are
then the main competition or they can be
a task where you fall out and you are
now seen as someone who is the weak link
you can't judge anyone you can't judge a
book by the cover as I'm learning and
getting to know each contestants
individually becoming a little bit more
aware of their own abilities and skills
I think as the seasons have been coming
on the competition is getting more and
more attention and I think it gives one
an opportunity to profile yourself in
the industry
[Music]
things are going to get pretty tough on
you guys we're going to be watching
every move that you like we're going to
be making sure that you've listened
paying attention to the taskmasters each
day and then we'll be judging you on
your ability to execute to work together
and of course hopefully to deliver a
presentation that impression bust as the
judge I need to leave a lasting
impression of all the judges within each
task as well as other the length of the
entire competition and our plan on doing
that by collaborating with my team
members but taking each each task in its
own right and developing my strategy as
I go on a daily basis each toss is going
to be different insurances multi Multi
festers with various challenges I'm
pretty sure the insurance princess is
going to challenge us in many of these
aspects to win the competitions I think
you've got to be able to adapt and very
quickly and that's something I'm very
good at the death all relationships make
connections with people work with people
work with all sorts of personalities and
you don't get to handpick who you
working with why you're working what
you're doing you know think quickly
think on your feet
well collaboration is one way to get
people close to you so they are able to
do what you want them to do and not
everyone in the competition and that's
why it's called a competition not a run
in the competition can stand until the
end so collaboration is just one part of
it the other is doing the best I can as
far as those on the top but concerned we
want you to play to win the next few
tasks will taste everything within you
your ability to work as a team your
ability to be a leader and the ability
to take out the competition
that's solid well on that for a second I
mean in everyday life we're all taught
to be nice decent not to speak badly of
people but remember you only get one
shot at this when you have your time
alone with the camera with us as the
judges I expect honest feedback even if
it means taking out one of your
opposition or one of your team members
is that clear I'm not ruthless I'm
honest I believe that having lost a task
it's important for everybody to
understand why I was lost and so I would
call out the things where I believe we
went wrong
I can be quite ruthless I think in
business be bold and bright
relationships all the time you know
you've got to be prepared to build a
relationship breakups and then be able
to build it again that's let's go
conflict is inevitable
and it is just to approach it in a
humane way so if there is conflict and
there is undercutting it is part of the
game we are yet there is only one
apprentice and you take it as it comes
and you cross that bridge in a few main
break I've got strong morals and
principles and I'd like to start you
anything within my own value system to
one I just want to say well done over
here to the final night itself you can
be proud of integrity going forward my
only advice is that you be authentic to
an Oscar season don't blame em for the
cameras don't pay up for the warning
claim by the judges we will be watching
you sir we'll know when you actually
acted it's also important for you to
know that the apprentice is not about
the ones with the most it's about the
one who'd make the greatest impact and
shows strong leadership skills so be a
team player
well stand out
because that's not going to make you
facial event what we really want is is a
competitor who is able to be a team
player as well as being a leader it's a
difficult balance to strike particularly
with the heat of the lights and the
camera on you but we really want an
authentic leader you can also be a team
player the first part of the show or the
other contest really involves a lot of
teamwork so we'll really need them to be
strong in that area and then of course
moving into more of a leadership role as
each episode progresses there must
demonstrate that they have strong
problem-solving skills they must show
that they are able to work as a team and
learn from the team and a little bit of
humility but at the same time
confidence is what it takes to actually
win this competition I believe I'm going
to win this Insurance Apprentice because
I have prepared for it and more
importantly I'm someone who's passionate
about the insurance industry and about
imparting young people and getting them
to know that insurance is a lucrative in
the static and pursue insurance and
select is a very small industry and I
mean it's good to be in a situation like
those two to raise your profile and if
anything I want to win and see where
that takes me in the future I think
winning this competition just opens up
the floodgates clearly in terms of your
exposure and in terms of what you can
learn an option time elbow to pay it
forward well I used to be a connect and
as much as domestics is an individual
sports is also a team sports but at the
end of the day there's only one person
who is going to win the crown and what
I've learned is that as much as we are
teammates I also have to make sure them
always on top of my game ok whatever
weaknesses they are to my advantage it's
very hard to think about undercutting
someone else because they've got the ACE
really some contestants that I've made
really good friends with already but in
the integrated Bay this is a competition
and we've gotta do what you gotta do
I'm prepared to go as far as I possibly
can
far as its required for me to be number
one I'm protects you to wrap things up a
little bit because like they say that's
the way you make diamonds so things get
rough I will get rough in order to shine
in the end right I thought you will to
leave now go and think about what you
need to do next
good luck you just listen
I think at the moment it is anyone's
game it is open for taking we are all
here because you're in it to win it
you dismissed
you